# README #

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get your application up and running.

### What is this repository for? ###

This repository is where the Android mobile project template used by **JumpStart** is stored.

### How do I get set up? ###

##### Summary of set up #####
####The following are the configurations already handled within the project:####
* Installation of dependencies needed for:
   * HockeyApp
   * ApiClient
   * Push Notifications setup
   * Project Directory and File Directory structure already prepared
   * Fastlane
* Constants and Util files
* Push Notifications setup
* Project Directory and File Directory structure already prepared
* Fastlane

##### Update project template #####
After cloning this template, you need to update the Package Name to conform to your project specifications. Also, add your preferred prefix to the Project settings so that files created afterwards will be distinct based on the prefix of choice.

####There are two steps to update the Package name:####
* First Changing the directory package:
   * First, go to the project directory in android studio then change the view to "Project"
   * then, click on the **settings(the cog wheel symbol)** then uncheck the `Compact Empty Middle Packages`. you can refer to this image https://image.prntscr.com/image/3ADQQa-MTCi8XsLfgdzOTA.png (66kB)


   * after that you can now see the package name or directory of the app then you can rename it by folder using `Shift + F6`or `rightclick then click refractor, under refractor click rename`.
   * then choose rename package name. you can refer https://image.prntscr.com/image/McoQPu3cR5OvNNDNwLpHOA.png (254kB)


* Second open the build.gradle of the project:
   * in the file there are code blocks, under **android > defaultConfig** there's a field `applicationId` change the package name under that field.
   * you can refer to this image https://image.prntscr.com/image/CeUriAVtQiK8F9Of81derQ.png (46kB)


   
##### Dependencies #####
Here are some of the dependencies you need to cater to be able to fully use the project template:

* ###### Firebase ######
   * Firebase is optional depending on client's requirements, If needed, in your **app/google-services.json**:
       * just copy and paste all the contents of the `google-services.json` generated by the firebase project console.
   * If not needed, just leave it there
* ###### Fastlane ######
   *  Open your project directory then check **fastlane/AppFile**:
       * Fill/Replace in `package_name` with your project's package name.
       * you can refer to this picture https://image.prntscr.com/image/g4jrMqPgQb6S2lJqPKo47w.png (43kB)
   * In your **fastlane/Fastfile**:
     * Fill in with your project's HockeyApp API token.
* ###### In-App Purchases Setup ######
    *   To use In-App Purchase use the branch named **IAPSetup**
    *   Files needed:
        * from the main folder there is a folder named **aidl** under it there is a package name **com.android.vending.billing** under that package there is a aidl file name `IInAppBillingService.aidl`
        * under the main package there is a package/folder named `InappServices` which contains all the classes and helpers needed to fully use the `InAppService`.
    *   Step by Step process to successfully implement IAP:
        * first use the class named `InAppService`, create an instance of it. it needs a `IAP_PUBLIC_KEY` which is generated by the Devlopers console.   
        * next call the method `InappSetup` to start the service of In App Billing.
        * after that you can now use the method `purchasePremium` and `purchaseConsumable`.
        * **Important Notes**:
            * `ITEM_SKU` parameter is the identifier of the Product from the Developers console.
            * see this picture for reference. https://image.prntscr.com/image/Uoo3ekH-RRiwxM0jStoYyg.png (the **bold** is the name of the product and under that parenthesis is the identifier/ITEM_SKU of the product).
            * see this picture for reference. https://image.prntscr.com/image/-E181xchQYS_ofK_pvsMvQ.png
            * the **version code** and the **package name** of the app in Developers console and in the app's build should be the same to use the In-App Billing Service. see this picture for reference. https://image.prntscr.com/image/cq4GP4njTMC5nJAOflR37w.png
            * On **alpha/beta** testing the tester's email should be invited from the developers console to test the `In-App Billing`
### Contribution guidelines ###

* Writing tests
* Code review
* Other guidelines

### Who do I talk to? ###

* Repo owner or admin
* Other community or team contact